Project Burnet

SUMMARY

PART I

From the very first Bitcoin transaction to the latest in cryptocurrency
development, it seems that the biggest problem in crypto has yet to be solved. Until
now, a cryptographically secure currency that is resistant not only to government’s
control, but also the control of the largest global corporations has yet to be modeled.
  
Bitcoin solved many issues. The blockchains that followed solved many more.
But the glaring and repeating issue in cryptocurrency is broad token distribution
through a fair and equitable process which remains fair and equitable through a
majority of the duration of the blockchain’s existence. In the long run, the Bitcoin
token distribution model favors those with the greatest access to capital and existing
wealth. The XRP token distribution model is far too centralized and thus requires too
much trust of a single entity. Ergo the need for [Burnet] – a novel and one of a kind
approach to cryptocurrency that maintains a high level of fairness in distribution
throughout its entire existence without sacrificing features of the XRPL and
tokenomics of the Bitcoin Network.
    
While technically speaking anyone can mine Bitcoin, as time goes on the costs
and barriers to entry to mine with the actual probability of receiving tokens scale
exponentially locking out would be participants. This model means that over time,
eventually the control of Bitcoin mining becomes more centralized with only most
well funded players having domain and control over the mining itself.
    
Projects like Ripple took the opposite approach to mining where they
attempted to distribute the token fairly as a pre-mine. Rather than unlocking tokens
slowly over time through Proof-of-Work, Ripple received pre-mined tokens from
OpenCoin, and later decided to escrow the coins to help curtail market fears of
Ripple controlling too much of the circulating supply. This distribution model has
proven to carry its own set of technical and legal issues placing a single entity at the
center of a massive legal battle with the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission. And while the token and network itself is extremely efficient, the semi-
permissioned trust model with only approximately 35 UNL validators locks out from
the network control by a vast majority of the crypto industry.
 
[Burnet] aims to solve these issues. It places the distribution of the tokens into
the hands of a much broader set of participants, it keeps the Bitcoin economics of
scarcity and predictable distribution, and it merges the efficiency of XRP into a single
blockchain while expanding the governance of the network to a broader range of
UNL validators – all without a single entity at the helm – and those which do
participate are all on a level playing field with no other player exercising less or
more control of the network at launch.
